"How do I withdraw from OU classes? *-* See the OU calendar for deadlines. You may withdraw from courses after the refund deadline and receive a “W” grade by securing the approval signature of the instructor and CPGE Associate Dean on a withdrawal petition form. No refund is given. Failure to withdraw officially from a course generates a failing grade of “F” or “WU”. "
"What if the course(s) I have selected have been cancelled? *-* Refer to the department for a current listing of available classes. "
"What types of scholarship opportunities are at SJSU? *-* There are three main sources of scholarships: Campus based scholarships - the application period for campus based scholarships is from January through May 1. The application can be found at Scholarships when it is available. Department based scholarships - the application for department based scholarships varies from major to major. Please check with the major department office for more information. Private (outside donor) "
"An outside donor or organization will be sending a scholarship check to SJSU. Where should the check be sent, and how soon will the money become available? *-* All scholarship checks should be mailed to the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office, Attn: Scholarship Coordinator, One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192-0036. Please make the scholarship check payable to San Jose State University. Checks should include the student's SJSU ID#. If the ID# is not available, please include first and last name as well as either the student's date of birth or last four digits of the student's social security number. Funds will typically be posted to student's account within 7-10 business days of the check being received. "
"Are there other scholarship opportunities besides here at SJSU? *-* YES! Be sure to check online scholarship search sites such as FastWEB and College Board. Also contact your high school, community center, employer or parent's employer, sorority/fraternity and or religious organization to see what scholarship opportunities they may provide. Beware of any scholarship opportunities that require a payment - scholarship funding does not require any repayment. "
"Do students have to file a FAFSA to apply for scholarships? *-* While a FAFSA is not needed to be considered for scholarships, SJSU recommends that all students file a FAFSA to be eligible for as many scholarships as possible. "
"Can international students apply for scholarships? *-* International students can apply for any merit based scholarship at SJSU. Be sure to check with outside donors about scholarship policies. "
"Can a student receive scholarship payments if enrolled through Open University? *-* No. Students cannot receive scholarship payments while in Open University. A student must be a matriculated student working towards a degree in order to receive aid. "
"Resouces about health insurance *-* http://stage.sjsu.edu/isss/resources/health-insurance/ "
"How do I get or replace a library card? *-* If you are a new borrower, please fill out the application online at the library or from home. You will then need to come in to King Library or any San José Public Library branch to pick up your library card in person. Please bring a valid, current government-issued photo ID such as a California driver’s license or a California ID card. To get a replacement library card, bring a valid photo ID with proof of current address and speak with a staff member at the Circulation Desk. In order to borrow items from the SJSU library, you'll need to fill out the Request a OneSearch Account form using your SJPL library card number and PIN. You will need an e-mail address, as the the SJSU system requires one. San Jose State Patrons: If you are an SJSU student, faculty, or staff, your SJSU Tower card serves as your library card. To log in to your Library Account, you will use your SJSU ID number and SJSUOne password. In order to check out items from the public library, you will need a San Jose Library account. Apply for an SJPL library card here or go to the circulation desk in the King Library or at one of the branches. "
"How do I reserve a group study room? *-* Group study rooms are available for use 1 hour per day per user for groups of 2 or more. You will need a valid San José Public Library card or current SJSU student ID to reserve a group study room at the King Library or any of the branch locations. You can reserve a branch group study room up to 4 days in advance online with your PIN. "
"How do I check out an eBook? *-* San José Public Library eBooks can be checked out with a valid SJPL library card.You can check out SJSU eBooks if you have a OneSearch account. SJPL customers may access the University Library electronic resources only while in the King library on either personal computers or wireless devices. Depending on the eBook format, you may need to download additional software. Visit the eBook Help pages for device-specific instructions. "
"How do I request or place a hold on an item? *-* Search our catalog to find the item you would like. Use the ""Place a Hold"" button in your search results or on the page for an individual item: You may also call 1-408-808-2000 to speak to a librarian. If the title you are looking for is not in our collection, you may be able to obtain a copy from the Link+ catalog or through ILLiad. "
"What are the differences between the BS in Computer Science, BS in Computer Engineering, and BS in Software Engineering programs? *-* Conventionally, Computer Engineering focuses on the combination of hardware and systems software (embedded systems, mobile devices), Computer Science focuses on programming and theory (formal languages, programming paradigms, etc.), and Software Engineering focuses on programming and methodology (analysis, design, testing, maintenance, cost estimation, project management, etc.). All three programs overlap. For example, all three programs cover programming, methodology, hardware, and systems software, but in different amounts. "
"Is InkedIn learning free? *-* Yes, it is free as a member of San Jose State University students, faculty, and staff. "
"Am I required to have a LinkedIn profile to use LinkedIn Learning? *-* No. You do not have to have a LinkedIn profile to access LinkedIn Learning. "
"Why should I connect my LinkedIn profile to my San Jose State LinkedIn Learning account? *-* Connecting your profile will allow you to have a richer and more personalized learning experience powered by the data and insights of the LinkedIn network based on what other professionals like you are watching. "
"How do I begin my application for MSSE? *-* Please follow the MS Software Engineering application submission process. This web page will answer many of your questions about submitting an application. You should also review the information provided by Graduate Admissions and Program "
"What are the application deadlines? *-* University admission deadlines are listed at http://www.sjsu.edu/gape/prospective_students/deadlines/ "
"What is the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluation (GAPE) office? *-* Applications are evaluated in a two-step process, first by the GAPE office then the department. The GAPE office administers all graduate admissions. It checks that your applications fulfill the minimum university criteria for admission. It checks your transcripts, degree certificates, TOEFL scores, visa status, and financial information. Currently, GAPE requires an evaluation of your transcripts by World Education Services (WES). Visit the GAPE web site for more information about WES evaluation for SJSU applications. Once Graduate Studies is satisfied that you are qualified to join the university, then it forwards your file to the department. This step is called ""Referred to Department"". During this step a Computer Engineering department advisor will evaluate your likelyhood of success in the MS Software Engineering program and make a decision about whether to extend admission to you. "
"I have questions about providing documents (such as transcripts and degree certificates) and test scores (such as TOEFL and GRE scores). Whom do I contact? *-* Documents and test scores should be submitted directly to GAPE. Please see the GAPE web site more information. Please do NOT contact a Computer Engineering department advisor or staff member for help with document submission as they will not be able to help you. If you have issues or questions about submitting documents, please contact GAPE and not the MS Software Engineering Advisor. "
"I have questions about the MS Software Engineering program. Whom do I contact? *-* Visit http://cmpe.sjsu.edu/content/office-hours and look for the MSSE Advisor. The times and location for advising sessions will be listed. The advising sessions are walk-in, group sessions for current, newly admitted, and prospective students. You do NOT need an appointment. Attending an advising session as a prospective student will allow you to hear from current graduate students as well have questions answered by an advisor. "
"What are the application fees? *-* Please check with the application web site, Cal State Apply (http://calstate.edu/apply), for university fees. "
"Do I need to submit letters of recommendation with my application? *-* Letters of Recommendation should NOT be submitted unless requested by the MS Software Engineering graduate advisor. "
"I do not have an Computer Science, Software Engineering, or Computer Engineering undergraduate degree but I do have an Engineering or Science degree. Can I be admitted conditionally classified? *-* I do not have an Computer Science, Software Engineering, or Computer Engineering undergraduate degree but I do have an Engineering or Science degree. Can I be admitted conditionally classified? "
"Do I need to demonstrate English proficiency? *-* If you do not have a degree from a US university, you need to provide a minimum TOEFL score of 550 paper based, 213 computer based, or 80 Internet based. As an alternative, you can submit IELTS scores with a minimum of 7.0. This is a University requirement. Students that submit TOEFL scores lower than the minimum will be denied admission by GAPE and will not be considered for conditional admission. Living or working in the US is NOT a basis for waiving the TOEFL test. "
"Do I need to provide GRE scores to be accepted? *-* If you are a graduate of an ABET accredited program at a US university, you do not need to provide GRE scores. If you are not from an ABET accredited program and do not provide GRE scores, your application will be considered after all applications that provide these scores. There is a strong possibility that you will NOT be admitted. We use GRE scores to compare and rank candidates. In general, applications with GRE scores of Q+V < 294 or AW < 3.0 are denied. If you have at least five years of relevant software development professional experience, the GRE requirement can be waived. "
"What is the status of my application? *-* The status of your application can be found on my.sjsu.edu. Please do not contact a Computer Engineering department advisor or staff person to ask the status of your application. "
"I concluded that I need to take quite a few courses to prepare myself for admission to the MSSE program. Can I be conditionally admitted and take the courses as an MSSE student? *-* We may admit students on a conditional basis if the number of fully qualified applicants is less than the available space in the MSSE program. "
"I will be completing my undergraduate degree in the same semester in which I submit an application. Is that ok? *-* For students in the US, yes. Be sure to clearly indicate that you expect to earn your BS in the current semester. Completing the degree will be a condition for admission. For international students, the GAPE office wants to see a degree certificate, so you will need to complete your undergraduate degree before you apply. Note that the date that the degree is conferred must be before the first day of classes in the graduate program. "
"I do not have a 4-year Bachelor degree. Can I be admitted to the MSSE program? *-* A 4-year Bachelor degree is a minimum requirement for admission to the graduate school. Note that two degrees in the same subject area can be used to meet the minimum degree requirement. For example an applicant from India can use a three-year bachelors degree plus a masters degree to meet the requirement. The degrees must have been completed. "
"I don't have a four-year degree or my undergraduate degree is not in Engineering or the Sciences. What can I do to become eligble to application to the the MS Software Engineering program? *-* If you do not meet the minimum degree requirements, you should consider a Second Baccalaureate (aka, Post Bac) degree in Software Engineering. Unfortunately, SJSU does not currently admit students pursuing a Second Baccalaureate degree at this time. You may find the equivalent at other universities. "
"My application was rejected, but I disagree. Can I appeal? *-* GAPE does provide an appeal process. However, if you were denied admission due to lack of space, your application rejection is not appealable. "
"My application was rejected. Can I join the program on a part-time or conditional basis? *-* No. There is no separate part-time program. If we had been able to accept you on a conditional basis, then we would have done so. If your application was rejected, your only recourse is to reapply. "
"I have an undergraduate degree but it did not provide the programming, math, science, or engineering skills I need for the MS Software Engineering program. What are my options? *-* Unfortunately, your options are limited. SJSU no longer admits students for Second Bachelors (AKA, post bac) degrees. Your best option is to acquire the skills you need at another university. Being admitted conditionally classified to the MS Software Engineering program is not an option. "
"I was admitted this semester. Is it possible for me to start my study next semester? *-* New graduate students must take at least one course during the first semester at SJSU. Otherwise, admission is forfeited, and application to SJSU must be repeated. Thus the CSU does not allow admission deferrals at all. Check with the GAPE office whether to resubmit admission documents. "
"Upon being admitted to the program, am I required to make an appointment with the Graduate Advisor? *-* It is not necessary. Read carefully the acceptance email sent to you (email the Graduate Advisor if you haven’t received it or need a new copy) and this webpage. Attending the MS-CMPE new graduate student orientation session is required. It is not required but highly advisable to attend the university-wide SJSU Graduate Student Orientation presented by the Office of Graduate Studies. "
"Can one of my admission conditions be waived if I have taken a course in the same subject in another institution? *-* No admission conditions can be waived. You must pass the subject test or its corresponding condition class in order to satisfy each admission condition. "
"After completing all my admission conditions, do I have to change my status from “conditional” to “classified” immediately? *-* No, your status will be changed when you file a Departmental Request for Candidacy and Graduate Degree Program Form (containing the university form called the Petition for Advancement to Graduate Candidacy), which you will do as part of the course activities in CMPE 295A or CMPE 299A. At that time, you will submit your SJSU graduate transcripts, admission letter listing admission conditions (if conditionally accepted), evidence of completing conditions (aforementioned transcripts and emails from department indicating passage of conditional course waiver tests), My Course History, transfer course permissions (if any), permissions to take courses in other departments (if any), and any other documentation needed to evaluate the accuracy of your submitted candidacy form. "
"How can I register for classes? *-* Go to your MySJSU account to register, but pay attention to fee payment deadlines. Because graduate students cannot enroll in undergraduate courses online and in advance of the semester, you will have to request a permission number from the department website in advance (usually a day or two before the start of the semester) and then go to the first class meeting of the semester. To add a graduate class also requires a permission number. "
"I tried to enroll in a class, but the enrollment (registration) system required departmental consent. How can I receive consent? *-* Consent in this case means acquiring a permission number. For some classes, such as project and GWAR classes, restrictions are put into place to ensure adequate preparation before enrolling. In addition, the department needs to be certain that those seeking enrollment are in our own master’s programs, have satisfied the necessary prerequisites, and have the academic standing required. Follow the instructions in Section 7.5 to obtain a permission number. "
"If I drop a class now, can I enroll in it next semester? *-* Yes, you can enroll in the class by the same process as used this semester. "
"When should I establish or update my Plan (Program) of Study? *-* It is not required to file a Plan of Study until applying for a CPT, filing a candidacy form, or being on probation. It is, however, helpful when seeking advising from the department or Graduate Advisor. "
"Can I transfer undergraduate units received at SJSU? *-* You can transfer a graduate course taken when you were a SJSU undergraduate senior student, but there are several restrictions. The course must not be listed on your undergraduate major form and thus must not have been used to satisfy any requirements for the bachelor’s degree. "
"Can I transfer graduate credits from extension or Open University courses of other universities? *-* No "
"Will a transfer course be counted as a core, specialization, or elective course? *-* It could be counted in place of any to which it is equivalent. "
"When can I request a transfer of courses? *-* After a semester begins, you can submit a Transfer Non-SJSU or Open University Course Request Form for each course you’d like to transfer. You must submit the request form with all supporting documents to the department office. The documents required include a syllabus from the course taken and an unofficial or official transcript showing the date taken, number of units/credits, and the grade earned. Minima of a “B” grade and 3 semester units/credits (or their equivalent) are required, and the course must have been taken recently enough that it will not expire by the seven-year limit at the point of graduating from the MS-CMPE program. The MS-CMPE Graduate Advisor will consult with the professors possessing the subject knowledge to decide whether to approve the request or not. "
"I was admitted into a different department but want to transfer into the MS-CMPE program. Can I do that? *-* The MS-CMPE program no longer takes transfers from other departments. "
"Are there any requirements for taking CMPE 294? *-* The only requirement for taking CMPE 294 is to be a registered Computer Engineering Department graduate student. "
"Will CMPE 298i for CPTs be counted as part of the required 9 units for students on an F-1 visa? *-* Yes. "
"What is the required GPA to change my major to CMPE and SE? *-* The department uses the Impacted Grade Point Averages (GPAs) for transfer students who have completed four course requirements as a basis for change of major. Students need to meet the Impacted GPA in “All College” GPA provided they have passed the four required courses. Also, they will be ranked based on the Impacted GPA on all STEM courses required in the major. "
"I am a current SJSU student and I want to change my major to SE (or CMPE) which classes should I take? *-* You need first to complete the required courses listed above. Then in order to improve your chances to get to the major, you should take STEM classes required in the major. But you need to remember that getting to the major is not guaranteed even if you meet the requirements. So you need to explore other majors as well. "
"Does the department intervine to assist students in enrolling in the classes needed for change of major? *-* Unfortunately no. The department has no control over how other departments manage enrollments in their classes. The only required CMPE course is CMPE 30 which is open to non-major students. "
"I am an international student admitted to a different major, how can I change my major to SE (or CMPE)? *-* You still need to take courses at SJSU as described above. We follow the same procedure for all students. "
"I have been disqualified from the University. What do I do now? *-* For more information regarding the reinstatement of disqualified graduate students, please refer to the Registrar's office. Students who wish to be reinstated following disqualification must see their graduate advisor to develop a program of study appropriate to their proposed major for coursework to be taken through San José State University Extended Studies, Winter Session, or Open University. Courses graded CR/NC are not applicable for reinstatement purposes. The program of study must consist of a minimum of six (6) units per semester of coursework and should contain only upper division (100-level) courses directly related to the student's major. A disqualified student is not permitted to enroll in graduate (200-level) courses. Neither extension courses taken from another institution, nor 400-level courses taken from San José State University Extended Studies, nor lower-division courses taken from this or any other institution, are appropriate for reinstatement purposes for a post-baccalaureate or graduate student. "
"I am in a graduate program already and would like to switch to another program; how is that possible? *-* Master's or credential students who are active in a graduate program in good academic standing and would like to switch to another program, changing their degree objective, must submit a Change of Program Application to Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations. This request is evaluated by Graduate Admissions and Programs Evaluations and sent to the graduate advisor for their final decision. All change of programs have to be approved before you can start a new program. The Change of Program final decision will be sent to you in the mail. "
"What is the Candidacy Form? *-* This is your proposed program. The candidacy lists the courses you have already completed or propose to complete in order to graduate. "
"When should I apply for Candidacy? *-* You may apply for candidacy after you have taken nine graded units of coursework within the degree program, have met the Graduate Writing Requirement, and are in Clear Classified standing. "
"What is the Competency in Written English and how do I complete it? *-* University Policy requires that all graduate students demonstrate competency in written English. Graduate students must satisfy the Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR) before advancement to candidacy. View the Approved GWAR Course List and Catalog GWAR Information for more details. "
"How do I change my status from conditional classified to classified standing? *-* Change of classification (from conditional to classified standing) will require approval from your Graduate Advisor prior to submitting the Change of Classification in Master's Program form to the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations Office in the Student Services Center. "
"How do I apply to graduate? *-* Students wishing to graduate must apply through their MySJSU account by the appropriate deadline posted on our Current Students Page. Students may only apply for graduation once they have advanced to candidacy and received a MySJSU message with instructions on how to apply online. "
"Can I apply for graduation past the deadline? *-* Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations will not accept graduation applications past the posted deadline. "
"What is the verification of culminating experience form? *-* Depending upon the department, the culminating experience requirement may be satisfied in a number of ways. Some departments have courses in which you satisfy the culminating experience requirement. When you pass the course, you have met the requirement. Some departments require completion of a master's thesis or project, while in other departments the requirement is met through a final examination. Usually departments submit this form to our office directly and no student intervention is needed. However, it is a good idea for students to follow up with their advisor to make sure that the Verification of Culminating Experience form has been submitted if this form is utilized by the department to document completion of the culminating experience requirement. "
"When will my degree be granted or posted on my transcript? *-* You can check your status on My SJSU under ""Other Indicators"" for a Graduation Awarded status message. Our graduation processing timeline is: Spring- late June - early July Fall- Mid January - early February Summer- Mid September - early October "
"When is Commencement? *-* SJSU holds two Commencement ceremonies per year: May and December. Ceremonies are held by college. For more information on Ceremony Schedules, Guest Tickets, Regalia, Intent to Participate: "
"Where and when will my diploma be sent? *-* Your diploma will be sent to the diploma address we have on record. You may view or change your diploma address on My SJSU up until your graduation date. Please keep your diploma address current since the post office will not forward diplomas to your new address. The schedule for sending diplomas is the same as the schedule for granting your degree. "
"How do I order another copy of my diploma? *-* To order another diploma copy, submit your request in writing to Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations. Your request must include your name (also the name on the diploma if it has changed), SJSU ID, the date you graduated and the degree that you received. You must pay a $10.00 fee to the bursar's office before submitting your request. If you have questions, contact the Evaluator for your program. "
"What if I don't graduate when I was supposed to? *-* If you do not complete the graduation requirements in the semester that you originally identified on your graduation application, you may reactivate your graduation for a future date. You will need to complete a Graduation Date Change Request and pay a $10.00 fee. Instructions for the date change request can be found here. You must make this request within the same published deadlines as the Application for Award of Master's Degree. "
"How do I Complete my new hire documents? *-* Before sending newly-hired employees to University Personnel to complete new hire paperwork, please remind them they will need to present proof of their identity and eligibility to work in the United States. A list of acceptable documents can be found on the last page of Form I-9. Original documents (no photocopies or digital images) must be presented to University Personnel within 3 business days of starting work for pay. For tax filing purposes, aliens authorized to work in the United States (Non-Resident Alien) must present their Passport, Visa, I-94, I-20 (students only), and Work Permit (students only). Presenting their Social Security Card is optional. "
"How can I contact University personnel? *-* http://www.sjsu.edu/up/about-us/directory-by-function/index.html "
"How do I Request to use my vacation? *-* Represented employees should consult the appropriate Collective Bargaining Agreement for guidelines. All employees should consult with their Appropriate Administrator to determine what the process is to request vacation in their department. "
"Where do I Pick up pay checks? *-* University Personnel distributes Master, Student, and Daily Pay Warrants, Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM, and 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM. Only the people listed to receive Payroll Warrants on the Warrant Release Authorization form are permitted to pick up pay warrants, and they must present photo I.D. when doing so. "
"How do I report an issue with my stationery order? *-* If you have an issue with your stationery order placed through Medius Corp., please contact Taylor Motekaitis, SJSU's customer service representative. Still need help? Please contact Roman Goshev. "
"How much is the application fee for international gateway? *-* The application fee is $150 and non-refundable. "
"How much is the tuition? *-* Academic and Test Preparation: $3590 (9 weeks) or $5790 (17 weeks) Semester at SJSU: $7000 (18 weeks) "
"Do I need to pay a tuition deposit before I receive an I-20? *-* No, International Gateways does not require a tuition deposit. You will receive your I-20 after all required documents and fees have been received an processed. "
"Do I have to provide proof of funds for one year even though I will stay in the U.S. less than one year? *-* Yes. U.S. Homeland Security requires schools to collect proof of funds for the first year even if the student is not planning to study for a full year. Please keep in mind that the amount on your bank statement will be listed on your I-20, and you will need to bring the bank statement to your F-1 visa interview. "
"What is an I-20? *-* An I-20 is a government document that certifies your eligibility to be an F-1 student. The I-20 is one of the required documents for an F-1 visa interview. "
"How long does it take to process my I-20? *-* Your I-20 will be issued within 5-7 business days from the time our admissions office receives and reviews your online application, application fee, and all required documents. "
"What should I do after I receive my I-20? *-* You must pay the SEVIS fee at fmjfee.com and schedule an F-1 visa appointment at the US Embassy or Consulate. It is important to note that schools in the U.S. cannot guarantee that the U.S. Embassy will issue an F-1 visa for the purpose of study in the U.S. For more information on how to apply for an F-1 visa, please visit our How to Get Your Student (F) Visa page or the Department of Homeland Security’s Study in the States website. "
"When can I enter the U.S.? *-* F-1 student can enter the U.S. no earlier than 30 days before the program start date. You can find the exact “earliest admission date” on the first page of your I-20. "
"What if my visa gets denied? *-* If your F-1 visa is denied, please inform us in writing immediately. If you have already paid tuition, please refer to our Tuition Refund Policy for refund eligibility and instructions. "
"What type of paperwork do I need to submit in order to hire an F-1 student? *-* Employers do not have to process any additional paperwork when hiring an international student, only what is required when hiring a U.S. Citizen. It is the student’s responsibility to apply for the work authorization. All paperwork is handled by the student and the International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS). "
"What does the student’s work authorization look like? *-* Pre-Completion OPT, Post-Completion OPT and the 24-Month STEM Extension approvals are granted upon the student receipt of an Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card). Students on CPT will receive confirmation through authorization located on the third page of their I-20. "
"When can a student work? *-* In general, a student may be authorized to work off-campus after a full academic year (two semesters) in good standing. Work may be authorized during or after the student’s course of study. The student may not begin work until they have received their authorization documentation and the start date given has been reached. "
"How many hours per week can a student work? *-* During fall and spring semesters, students may only work part-time, (20 hours or less per week). During the summer, students may work full-time, (up to 40 hours per week or more). Graduate students who have only their thesis or project remaining may be authorized to work full-time during the semester on Post-Completion OPT or Pre-Completion OPT. "
"What is E-Verify? *-* E-Verify is an online system which allows businesses to determine the eligibility of their employees to work in the United States. Students on the 24-Month (STEM) Extension may only work with companies enrolled in E-Verify. To learn more about E-verify, please visit the USCIS E-Verify page. "
"Are F-1 students subject to taxes? *-* While employers typically withhold Medicare/Social Security taxes from employee’s wages; this is NOT the case for non-resident, F-1 students. They are exempt from these taxes, though they are still subject to income tax withholding. An F-1 student is considered a non-resident for his or her first five calendar years in the United States. Please consult with a tax professional for more information on F-1 student taxes. "
"Can an F-1 Student Work without an EAD Card? *-* F-1 students MUST receive the EAD card in order to begin work via OPT. They may not start work based on the I-797 paper approval notice or anything else apart from the EAD card with the indicated start date. "
"Can a Student be Authorized for Unpaid Employment? *-* F-1 students may also report an unpaid employment experience. This will effectively stop the unemployment-day accumulation and could permit the student to continue searching for a paid opportunity while he or she is engaged in unpaid employment. However, the student must ensure that proper records and timecards are maintained for their unpaid employment experience in the event that they have to show proof of their work experience/duties. "
"Are international students eligible to take OU courses with an international visa? *-* If you are studying under an F1 or J1 status through another school/program, you can take Open University courses at SJSU. These courses can be used towards maintaining your legal F1 or J1 status if approved by your current school/program. "
"Are transcripts and a SJSU application necessary? *-* Transcripts and a formal University application are not required for OU enrollment. "
"Can I add a course after the deadline? *-* You can add a course provided you meet the prerequisite requirements and the instructor sign your registration form. Complete a ""Late Add"" form (PDF) in the Form Section and submit it with a signed registration form to the College of Professional and Global Education (CPGE) office located at One Washington Square, Student Union - CPGE "
"Can I drop my classes and receive a refund? *-* You can drop your classes by the drop date and receive a partial refund listed on the calendar in the OU booklet. NO REFUNDS are given for dropping an Open University class after the last day to drop for a partial refund. Failure to attend may not cause students to be dropped from a class automatically. Failure to drop officially from a course generates a failing grade of “F” or “WU” and fees will be charged to student account. "
"Can I take OU classes if I am a matriculated student? *-* No, you may not cancel your admission to the university for purposes of attending Open University. You may not enroll in Open University if you have been admitted to SJSU as a regular student for this semester or if you are a continuing regular student, registered in the previous semester. This rule is not applied for disqualified student. "
"How do I access my grades? *-* Grades will be available within two to three weeks after the course completes. Access your grades via online, MySJSU (UserID and password required). "
"How can I pay? *-* Please see the Office of Bursar's Office Methods of Payment for more information. "
"How can I obtain a transcript? *-* To order official transcripts, visit the Transcript website. "
"How do I drop a course? *-* Complete the drop process either by dropping online on mySJSU account or filing a Petition for Course Drop. Refer to the OU Calendar to identify which drop method, what signatures are required and whether an academic withdrawal penalty applies. Leaving a course without authorization will result in a WU (F) grade. "
"How do I know if the course I am taking through OU will count toward my degree/program? *-* You can meet with the Undergraduate or Graduate Advisor of the department where you are pursuing a degree to make sure the course(s) you are taking count toward your degree/program."
"I received a C in a course. Do I have to repeat the course? *-* No. C is considered a passing grade for a graduate course (a C- is not). However, you must maintain a 3.0 GPA overall in order to avoid probation. "
"What are on-probation and disqualification? *-* Students with a GPA below 3.0 will be put on probation. If a student on probation continues the subsequent semester with a GPA below 3.0 that student will be disqualified. If you adept on probation or disqualified, you MUST consult with your program’s Academic Program Coordinator (Advisor) as soon as possible. "
"When should I apply to graduate? *-* Please be sure that you have an *APPROVED* candidacy form on file PRIOR to submitting an application for graduation. Deadlines to apply for graduation. "
"Will my area of specialization be listed on my degree diploma or transcript? *-* The diploma of a main campus or off-campus student only states the general degree name, e.g. Master of Science in Software Engineering. Per university policy, ""specialization"" is not included on diplomas or transcripts. However, a ""concentration"" is officially listed on both diplomas and transcripts. Check each program's individual page for degree type. "
"Will my diploma indicate that I have studied at an off-campus location? *-* No, all off-campus degree programs offered by Engineering Extended Studies are conferred by San José State University, and thus receive the same diploma as main campus degree programs. "
"Are separate commencement ceremonies hosted for main campus and off-campus programs? *-* The San Jose State University hosts a commencement ceremony each semester for the College of Engineering for both main and off-campus students. Both main and off-campus students will gather, photograph, march, and sit together with others earning the same degree during the commencement ceremony. Some corporate programs host a separate celebration ceremony for their employees, however students are still welcome to participate in the commencement ceremony. "
"My employer is asking for degree verification. Where do I request this document? *-* Degree Verification Letters may be requested from the University's Office of the Registrar. "
"Is a statement of purpose required? Should I send it directly to the College of Engineering? *-* You must include a statement of purpose directly in the online Cal State Apply application, identifying which off-campus degree program you are applying for. (Ex: Cybersecurity, Lam Research, Battery Technologies, etc.) It will NOT be used for admissions purposes. The maximum is 500 words, but we advise that you limit it to one paragraph "
"Are GREs required? *-* GRE is not required "
"Does the Engineering Extended Studies department consider GREs? *-* You may report GRE scores on your application and they will be used as a reference "
"Are letters of recommendation required? *-* No "
"Does the Engineering Extended Studies department admit students in Spring semester? *-* Only a few of our programs accept applications for Spring semester. The majority of our cohorts begin in Fall. Check each program’s individual page for admission timelines "
"My application status on MySJSU says ""referred"". What does that mean? *-* The ""referred"" status means that the University has completed the initial review to determine if you meet the minimum CSU Eligibility requirements and has then forwarded your application to your program’s department for the department admission review process. After a thorough evaluation of each completed application, the Program Admission Committee submits the admission recommendation to the University. The University then makes the final admission decision and notifies the applicant. Please wait for the notification by the University regarding the admission decision. The program is not authorized to provide evaluation results to the applicants. Meanwhile, you can view your application status via MySJSU "
"My application says I’m missing documents. Can I send pending documents in the form of softcopy by scanning and emailing them to the College of Engineering? *-* No. All documents must be submitted directly to Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations (GAPE). Documents sent directly to the College of Engineering will not be accommodated. Items such as the residency questionnaire, a copy of Green Card or Visa, Declaration of Finance, or a copy of your current passport may be scanned and converted into PDF format. Send the email with attachments to sa-adm-wrkflow@sjsu.edu. Include your nine-digit SJSU ID and your name in the body of the email message. Please note, transcripts and mark sheets will not be accepted if sent via email "
"Where should I send my transcripts? *-* FOR APPLICANTS WITH FOREIGN DEGREES: SJSU requires that all applicants with foreign coursework provide a WES (World Education Services) evaluation. To keep costs at a minimum, SJSU accepts the document-by-document evaluation (Basic or ICAP). SJSU prefers and requests the document-by-document evaluation, however if SJSU receives a course-by-course evaluation, we will accept this format as well. Mark sheets/transcripts must be sent directly to WES for evaluation. SJSU must receive the academic record and the evaluation directly from WES. A complete WES evaluation is preferred. DO NOT send foreign transcripts to SJSU as they will not be considered for your application. After you submit your documents to WES, please DO NOT send a copy of your documents to the College of Engineering nor the University as we will receive the completed evaluation directly from WES. "
"How do I submit additional items assigned on my checklist? *-* By checking your application status, you may see additional items for request. These include items such as the residency questionnaire, a copy of Green Card or Visa, Declaration of Finance, or a copy of your current passport. All documents must be submitted directly to Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations (GAPE). All documents must be legible and converted into PDF format. Include your nine-digit SJSU ID and your name in the body of the email message. Send the email with attachments to sa-adm-wrkflow@sjsu.edu. Please note, transcripts and mark sheets will not be accepted if sent via email "
"The institution of higher education that I attended only issues summary transcripts (mark sheets), but SJSU requires term-by-term transcripts. What should I do? *-* Since GAPE requires that all international applicants provide a WES (World Education Services) evaluation for any educational work taken outside of the U.S. & Canada, WES will submit the evaluation to SJSU in a format that is accepted by the university. Mark sheets/transcripts/degree certificates must be sent directly to WES for evaluation. SJSU must receive the academic record and the evaluation directly from WES "
"Do I need to be prequalified before I can apply for the program? *-* No, but we strongly suggest you submit a pre-qualification form "
"How much does it cost to apply to SJSU? *-* Payment of the CSU Application Fee of $55 will be accepted by electronic check, PayPal, credit or debit card. The payment must be made in order to submit your Cal State Apply university application "
"I missed the application (or document) deadline for the upcoming cohort. Is there a way for me to take classes now and apply for the next admission term later? *-* You may be able to take classes as Open University (OU) if you satisfy the course prerequisites. At most, nine units of OU courses can be transferred to this program if you are admitted in the future. However, taking and passing OU classes will not guarantee your admission to the program. You must contact the designated Program Specialist for the degree program in which you are interested and inquire about taking OU classes "
"I was admitted for Fall semester, but am unable to attend. Can I defer my admission? *-* No. Enrollment in the semester that a student is admitted to is required for an applicant to be considered a matriculated student. Applicants may not defer admission to a later semester and will have to re-apply to the University "
"I'm not sure of the conversion of my international bachelor's degree program percentage to GPA. What do I put in the GPA field on the Cal State Apply application? *-* When completing the Cal State Apply application, if you are unsure how to calculate GPA conversion to the 4.0 scale system used in the U.S., enter the place holder of ""3.0"" until GAPE receives the hard copies of your transcript and can make the evaluation. See the above questions regarding document submission for international/non-U.S. resident applicants "
"Does my bachelor's degree from a non-US institution qualify me for a graduate program at SJSU? *-* A student's bachelor's degree must be from an accredited four-year institution, and/or a program that is confirmed to be the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree. "
"Can I transfer credits from other institutions or programs? *-* You can only transfer the exact courses required by the program. If you have questions about course substitutions, you should contact the Academic Program Coordinator for the program ASAP to discuss the petition process for a course exemption. Students can transfer up to 9 units only "
"I was recently admitted to an on-campus program or my application was withdrawn. Can I transfer my application to an off-campus program? *-* Please contact the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations office. Applications are only transferable to off-campus programs during the same admission term for which you originally applied "
"I was admitted to an off-campus program, and I am thinking about transferring to an on-campus program at SJSU. Can I transfer the courses I have taken so far to the on-campus program? *-* If you want to apply to an on-campus program you must do so via Cal State Apply in a subsequent application cycle. If you are accepted to an on-campus program after taking courses for your off-campus program, the on-campus program will determine if your units earned off-campus are transferable "
"What is the SEVP Portal? *-* As of March 23, 2018, the Department of Homeland Security’s Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) rolled out the SEVP Portal, a website that allows F-1 students to meet the mandatory SEVIS reporting requirements of updating addresses, phone numbers, and employment changes. "
"Who’s eligible to use the SEVP Portal? *-* Students will receive an invitation email from SEVP when: 1) The status of an OPT request in SEVIS has changed to “Approved” 2) on the OPT Approval Start Date as indicated on your OPT EAD card "
"How to create a SEVP Portal account? *-* An account creation email will be sent to students from do-not-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov. The subject line of the email will be “Optional Practical Training Approval - the next step. Create a SEVP Portal account”. The only way to get to the portal registration page is to use the link in the email, and the link is unique to each student. The email will be sent to the “preferred” email saved in MySJSU. Please be sure your email is valid, updated, and checked as “Preferred” in the box next to the email address in MySJSU. Your preferred email will also be your SEVP Portal user ID. Remember, because SJSU email account will be deleted one year after your last semester at SJSU, the “preferred” email must be your non-SJSU email. "
"How to maintain your SEVP Portal account? *-* As a US government system, the SEVP Portal must conform to the federal government’s security procedures. As the SEVP Portal user, students also must follow these procedures. As part of the requirement, your SEVP Portal account password resets every 90 days; please do choose a strong password that is easy to memorize. Please do not share your ID and password with other people. To find out more information and tips on passwords set up, please go here. If you have questions on how to reset your locked Portal account or to receive a new email invitation due to the expiration of a previous invitation, please scroll down to the “Most Frequently Asked Questions” section on this webpage. "
"Where can I go to find more information about the SEVP Portal? *-* You can find detailed information about the SEVP Portal on the Study in the States page and the SEVIS User Guide. We highly recommend that our students watch the SEVP Portal Help videos and read the SEVIS User Guide for a step-by-step guide to navigating and updating the SEVP Portal "
"I received my EAD card, but why haven’t I received the invitation from SEVP or have access to the employment record in the SEVP Portal? *-* The earliest date you can receive your account creation email is the Approval Start Date indicated on your EAD card. In other words, if you have already received your EAD card but the start date is in the future, you need to wait until that start date to receive the email. Additionally, SEVP may take up to 1 month after your EAD start date to process a portal account for you. "
"What if I have forgotten my password? *-* If you have forgotten your password and your portal account has not been locked, you may request a password reset by going to the main login page for the SEVP Portal and clicking the link ""Reset Password."" "
"What if my SEVP Portal account is locked? *-* The SEVP Portal will lock your account after three failed attempts to log in to the SEVP Portal. Please use the SEVP Portal Access Form to request a reset of your SEVP Portal password. Password resets and account unlocks may take up to 15 business days. You will receive an email with a link from do-not-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov with the subject line, “Account Reset”. The link is unique and you can only use it once. "
"I received an account creation email, but I didn’t create a SEVP Portal account and now the invitation link is expired. What should I do? *-* Please use the SEVP Portal Access Form to request a resend of your invitation email. We will request a new invitation email to be sent to your desired email address. The process may take up to 15 business days. "
"I no longer want to use the preferred email in MySJSU to receive communications from SEVP. Can I request to change my email address? *-* Yes. You can request to change your email address that is associated with your SEVP Portal account using the SEVP Portal Access Form. An email with a temporary password will be sent from do-no-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov with the subject line, “Your email address has been changed in SEVIS”. However, we strongly discourage our students from unnecessarily changing email addresses while on OPT and STEM. "
"I changed my preferred email in MySJSU. What will happen? *-* Your preferred email is the user ID of your SEVP Portal account. Changing your preferred email in MySJSU will result in changing your SEVP Portal user ID. You will lose your access to the SEVP Portal until receiving an email from SEVP with the temporary password. Similar to the change email address request, the temporary password email will be sent from do-not-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov with the subject line, “Your email has been changed in SEVIS”. "
"I entered a correct work/home address in the Portal, but it does not validate. What should I do? *-* The Portal will attempt to validate addresses you enter; however, if the Portal cannot find or verify an address, you will get an error message. Please be sure you entered your address correctly. If you still have trouble validating your address, please use the Change of Address Form to report your home address and use the Employment Update Report Form to report company addresses. "
"Can I still use the SJSU Employment Update Report Form to report my employment while I’m on OPT? *-* Yes. You can still use our service to report your employment, address, and phone number changes. However, we encourage our students to use the SEVP Portal to report changes while they are on OPT. "
"What happens if I haven’t been logged into the SEVP Portal account for over 90 days? *-* You will need to request a password reset through the SEVP Portal Access Form. "
"Where can I get a permission code? *-* Permission Codes, or Class Permission Numbers, are required to add a course that indicates Department Consent or Instructor Consent. These codes can be obtained from the appropriate department office or instructor. A permission code is needed after open registration has ended. "
"How many CR/NCR courses can I take? *-* Of the units completed for your master's program, 60 percent must be letter-graded coursework. The other 40 percent may be credit/no-credit courses. "
"Can I take undergraduate classes as a graduate student? *-* Yes, graduate students may take undergraduate classes. However, lower division (freshman and sophomore) courses numbered 1-99 cannot be used for graduate degree credit and are not included in the GPA computation. "
"What is considered a passing grade for graduate students? *-* You must complete all courses in your graduate program with grades of A, B, C or CR. Grades of C-, D, F, U, or NC in any course are considered to be unsatisfactory. Any unsatisfactory grades will remain on the transcript and program which will continue to be computed in your grade point averages at SJSU. If the course with the unsatisfactory grade is a core course, you must retake the course to earn a better grade. If the course with the unsatisfactory grade was an elective course, you must petition through your academic advisor to add another course to the graduate degree program with the unit value equivalent to that of the course in which the unsatisfactory grade was received. All students must have a graduate career cumulative GPA of 3.0 or above to receive a graduate degree from this university. "
"How do I drop a course from a previous semester? *-* You will need to fill out a Retroactive Course Drop form. Retroactive Graduate Petitions also include: Retroactive Add, Drop, or Retroactive Withdrawal. These petitions are available at the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations front counter in the Student Services Center. "
"Can I skip a semester? *-* You may take one semester off without reapplying to the University. Summer is not considered a semester (example: If you do not register in the Spring, you would need to register the following Fall to maintain your enrollment). "
"How can I apply for a leave of absence? *-* Leave of absences are handled by the Registrar's office located in the Student Service Center; forms can be obtained from the Registrar. "
"How can I find out the textbook selection for a class? *-* The Program Specialist will send students the syllabus before each class begins. "
"What is the best way to contact the Graduate & Extended Studies' office? *-* If you have a question regarding single or dual degree programs, please send an email to engineering-extended@sjsu.edu. If you have a question regarding corporate degree programs, please send an email to engineering-extended@sjsu.edu. If you have a question regarding main campus resources, please send an email to engineering-grad-success@sjsu.edu. "
"Where can I obtain more general information regarding graduate studies? *-* The Office of Graduate Admissions & Program Evaluations performs the administrative and evaluative functions to maintain and implement the policies and procedures related to admissions, advancement to candidacy, graduation, and university level program requirements for all graduate students. A Graduate Student Success Coordinator and an International Graduate Student Advisor also support graduate students at the College of Engineering by providing college and university general information and resources. Please check our website for contact information. "